JUDY WOODRUFF: As we heard, it
was a dramatic and consequential
return for John McCain to
the Senate floor, his first
public appearance since being
diagnosed with brain cancer.
While his vote helped
Republicans open up
debate on health care,
he laid out the difficult
road ahead to replace
the Affordable Care Act,
and he called on his
colleagues to change
the tone and behavior of the
Senate more broadly as well.
SEN.
JOHN MCCAIN (R), Arizona:
Our deliberations can
still be important and
useful, but I think
we'd all agree they
haven't been overburdened
by greatness lately.
And, right now, they
aren't producing much
for the American people.
Both sides have let this happen.
Let's leave the history of who
shot first to the historians.
I suspect they will find we
all conspired in our decline,
either by deliberate actions
or neglect.
We have all played
some role in it.
Certainly, I have.
Sometimes, I have let my
passion rule my reason.
Sometimes, I made it harder
to find common ground because
of something harsh I said to
a colleague.
Sometimes, I wanted to win more
for the sake of winning than
to achieve a contested policy.
I hope we can again
rely on humility, on our
need to cooperate, on
our dependence on each
other to learn how to trust
each other again and by so doing
better serve the people who
elected us.
Stop listening to the bombastic
loudmouths on the radio and
television and the Internet.
To hell with them.
(APPLAUSE)
SEN.
JOHN MCCAIN: They don't
want anything done
for the public good.
Let's trust each other.
Let's return to regular order.
We have been spinning our
wheels on too many important
issues because we keep trying to
find a way to win without
help from across the aisle.
That's an approach that's
been employed by both sides,
mandating legislation from the
top down, without any support
from the other side, with all
the parliamentary maneuvers
that requires.
We're getting nothing
done, my friends.
We're getting nothing done.
And all we have really done
this year is confirm Neil
Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.
Our health care insurance
system is a mess.
We all know it, those
who support Obamacare
and those who oppose it.
Something has to be done.
We Republicans have looked for
a way to end it and replace
it with something else without
paying a terrible
political price.
We haven't found it yet.
And I'm not sure we will.
All we have managed to do is
make more popular a policy that
wasn't very popular when we
started trying to get rid of it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator
John McCain on the
Senate floor today.
We asked more than 20 Republican
senators to join us tonight.
None accepted our invitation.
But we stay on Capitol Hill
for a Democrat's perspective.
He is Senator Jon
Tester of Montana.
He has served in the
Senate since 2007.
Senator, we're very glad
to have you join us.
What did you make of what
John McCain had to say today?
SEN.
JON TESTER (D), Montana:
Well, I think he was spot on.
John's a statesman, and he
certainly has respects from
both sides of the aisle.
But this place is broken.
And we do need to work across
the aisle, and compromise
shouldn't be a dirty word.
And we need to negotiate and
we need to take everybody's
input and come up with the best
possible legislation.
And that's certainly not what
happened with the health care
bill that we have dealt with
over the last seven months, the
various ones that have come out.
But the bottom
line is this, Judy.
This country was built by
people working together.
Washington, D.C., is far,
far, far too partisan.
And we need to start
working together.
And I think John McCain
is right on that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there any sign
that that's going to happen?
Is one senator's speech
on the floor going
to make a difference?
SEN.
JON TESTER: Well, no,
I think it's going to
take more than that.
And I will just tell you that
I am blessed to be able to
work with a guy by the name
of Johnny Isakson
on the VA Committee.
And together, a Republican
and a Democrat, along with a
really good committee, have been
able to pump out some pretty
good bills that the president
has been able to sign.
And we have done that by
communicating with one another,
not embarrassing one another,
but working for the best
interests of our veterans.
And I think that if the Senate
would take a look at the
successes we have had over the
last many years, it's been
by people communicating
and working together and
negotiating and compromising.
And I think we start
to doing that more and
more in the Senate.
And there is no better place
to start than with a bill
that impacts one-sixth of our
economy, this health care bill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
about that health care bill.
Now that Republicans have
been able to get it on the
floor, debate has begun.
Do they have the votes, do you
believe, to get it to a point
where they repeal the Affordable
Care Act and come up with a
substitute that they like?
SEN.
JON TESTER: I have no idea,
because I don't know of anybody
that voted today that knew
what they were voting on.
They were voting on potentially
a House bill that was going
to be replaced with something
else, but we don't
know what it is.
And I will go back to
John McCain's words.
Let's go back to the
committee process and
start working together.
But that's going to have to be
something that Mitch McConnell
requires, rather than trying
to craft something with a
limited number of people and
a limited number of input that
actually doesn't move the health
care system forward and make
it more accessible and more
affordable, especially for
folks in Middle America,
because we really get pounded by
proposals like the House
bill or, what's even
worse, the Senate health
care bill that came
forth.
I mean, it could literally shut
down health care facilities.
And that's what they have told
me as I have gone around the
state and visited face-to-face
with these folks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Senator,
what we're hearing now is what
-- the version that may have the
best chance is what
they're calling skinny
repeal, which wouldn't
do away with everything,
but it would do away with
the individual mandate.
It would do away, I gather,
with employer mandate penalty
and the medical device tax.
Is that something that comes
any closer to a consensus?
SEN.
JON TESTER: I don't know that
that's the kind of reform that
we need in our health care
system.
And I think it may be more of
a bait-and-switch to be able to
get a bill that you could get
a number of votes to pass
it out and then take it to
conference and replace with it
a really bad bill.
And that's my concern.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you don't
think that that version, which
some Republicans are saying
would make them happy, bring
some conservatives on board, and
perhaps entice moderates, you're
saying you don't see
that as moving the ball?
SEN.
JON TESTER: Look, I don't think
it's going the move the ball.
I think there is
another agenda here.
And the agenda is to do some
really bad things with Medicaid
expansion and to block-grant
Medicaid, which really hurts
rural states - - I think it
hurts the whole country -- and
not to address preexisting
conditions and lifetime caps.
And if that's the direction
we're headed, then that's not
the direction I want to go.
I think that that skinny
bill, that bait-and-switch
bill, whatever you
want to call it, Trojan
horse repeal bill, that bill
is not where we will end up at.
And I don't think you get the
conservatives with that bill.
And I don't think you
get the moderates either.
So, I think what's
happened here is, you
have got Mitch McConnell,
who has his vote today
on something we don't know
what it is going to end up at,
and him crafting another bill
to put it up to be able to
change the bill in conference.
That's all very convoluted,
in the weeds, but that's
where we're headed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Senator, you
mentioned Medicaid expansion
in your own state of Montana.
I'm reading an Associated Press
report that talks about the
number of Medicaid enrollees
having far exceeded the
number that were expected.
A number of people in
your state worrying this
program can't be sustained.
I guess they were expecting
maybe 30,000 to sign up.
It's been 80,000
who have signed up.
And there's worry that
Montana can't continue this.
Isn't this the exact sort
of thing that Republicans
say is what making this
whole process unsustainable?
SEN.
JON TESTER: I think the
Medicaid expansion has been an
incredible success in Montana
and has really helped people
get health care for the first
time in their life, the working
folks out there that couldn't
afford health care before.
I think this is
about priorities.
And if our priority is to make
sure that people have access
to affordable health care, then
we need to move forward.
But we have got 77,000
folks that signed up for
Medicaid expansion in
the state of a million
and 50,000 people.
I don't think that's
necessarily a bad thing.
I think it's a good thing,
because now we have people
that are going to school that
are healthy, that are going to
work that are healthy, that own
small businesses that healthier,
and I think it's an
important step to take.
But I think it's
about priorities.
We need to make health care
a priority in this country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Democratic
Senator Jon Tester of Montana,
we thank you very much.
SEN.
JON TESTER: Thank you.